Add Mongo to SQL connector list [HZ-2502] (#761)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/sql/pages/mapping-to-mongo.adoc

----
Notice that there is no mention of `TYPE MONGO` this time; it’s automatically assumed by the SQL engine when you provide MongoDB data connection. This works with both schema provided or not.

> *Note*: You have to specify database name. You have 3 options:
> 
>  - add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in CREATE DATA CONNECTION
>  - add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in CREATE MAPPING
>  - use full external name, e.g. `CREATE MAPPING people EXTERNAL NAME myDatabase.people (...)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[NOTE]
====
You have to specify the database name using one of the following options:

* add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in `CREATE DATA CONNECTION`
* add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in `CREATE MAPPING`
* use the full external name, e.g., `CREATE MAPPING people EXTERNAL NAME myDatabase.people (...)`
====
```

* add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in `CREATE DATA CONNECTION`
* add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in `CREATE MAPPING`
* use the full external name, e.g., `CREATE MAPPING people EXTERNAL NAME myDatabase.people (...)`
====

== Supported Object Types

For given connector there may be 1 or more object types. For Mongo SQL Connector we have 2 object types:

 - `Collection` - represents batch raeding from given collection. This is the default object type.
 - `ChangeStream` - represents reading a stream of events.

To change object type you want to use, you have to append `OBJECT TYPE X` after `DATA CONNECTION` / `TYPE`, for example:

[tabs]
====
+
Using Data Connection::
--
[source,sql]
----
CREATE MAPPING people (
    firstName VARCHAR(100),
    lastName VARCHAR(100),
    age INT
)
DATA CONNECTION myMongo
OBJECT TYPE ChangeStream
OPTIONS (...)
----
--
+
Using TYPE::
--
[source,sql]
----
CREATE MAPPING people (
firstName VARCHAR(100),
lastName VARCHAR(100),
age INT
)
TYPE Mongo
OBJECT TYPE ChangeStream
OPTIONS (...)
----
--
====

== Field mappings

Object type `Collection` reads columns to be the same as properties in Mongo collection.

> For `ChangeStream` it's more complicated: the ChangeStream objects have Mongo collection's properties prefixed with `fullDocument.`,

Author: ```suggestion
For `ChangeStream` it is more complicated. The ChangeStream objects contains the MongoDB collection properties, prefixed with `fullDocument.`.
```

I don't really "like" `take` here - changeStream object contains original event data, I think `contains` is better here, WDYT?

> For `ChangeStream` it's more complicated: the ChangeStream objects have Mongo collection's properties prefixed with `fullDocument.`,

Reviewer 2: I agree, that makes sense.

> There are also some predefined, top-level (without `fullDocument.` prefix) columns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are also some predefined, top-level columns without the `fullDocument.` prefix:
```

>  - `operationType STRING` - operation that triggered this Change event, e.g. `insert`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `operationType STRING`: Operation that triggered this change event, e.g. `insert`
```

> - `resumeToken STRING` - resume token associated with given change stream event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `resumeToken STRING`: Resume token associated with the given change stream event.
```

> - `wallTime DATE_TIME` - wall time of the event.

Reviewer 2: Not sure this is very useful if you don't know what "wall time" is. Could you give a fuller description?

> - `ts TIMESTAMP` - Timestamp of when the even occurred, either equal to wall time or to current time on the Hazelcast node,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ts TIMESTAMP`: Timestamp when the event occurred, which is either equal to wall time on the Hazelcast member, or to current time if no wall time was provided. 
```

  if no wall time was provided.
- `clusterTime TIMESTAMP` - cluster time on which this even occurred.

== Type Mapping

> The type system in MongoDB and SQL is not exactly the same. That leads to potential confusions and the need of type coercion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The type system in MongoDB and SQL is not exactly the same. This leads to potential confusion and the need for the type coercion.
```

----
Notice that there is no mention of `TYPE MONGO` this time; it’s automatically assumed by the SQL engine when you provide MongoDB data connection. This works with both schema provided or not.

[NOTE]
====
Specify the database name using one of the following options:

* Add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in `CREATE DATA CONNECTION`
* Add `OPTIONS ('database' = 'myDatabase')` in `CREATE MAPPING`
* Use the full external name, e.g., `CREATE MAPPING people EXTERNAL NAME myDatabase.people (...)`
====

== Supported Object Types

There may be one or more object types for a connector. The Mongo SQL connector has two object types:

 - `Collection`: Represents a batch read from a given collection. This is the default object type.
 - `ChangeStream`: Represents reading a stream of events.

To change the object type, append `OBJECT TYPE X` after `DATA CONNECTION` / `TYPE`. For example:

> [tabs]

Reviewer 2: The tabs are not displaying in the preview as the syntax is slightly wrong. Try this instead:

```[tabs]
====
Using Data Connection::
+
--
[source,sql]
----
CREATE MAPPING people (
    firstName VARCHAR(100),
    lastName VARCHAR(100),
    age INT
)
DATA CONNECTION myMongo
OBJECT TYPE ChangeStream
OPTIONS (...)
----
--
Using TYPE::
+
--
[source,sql]
----
CREATE MAPPING people (
firstName VARCHAR(100),
lastName VARCHAR(100),
age INT
)
TYPE Mongo
OBJECT TYPE ChangeStream
OPTIONS (...)
----
--
====

Author: Done: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/761/commits/36b3c1aeb14ce3e00923f86ca9f95dff8ac1f68a

====
+
Using Data Connection::
--
[source,sql]
----
CREATE MAPPING people (
    firstName VARCHAR(100),
    lastName VARCHAR(100),
    age INT
)
DATA CONNECTION myMongo
OBJECT TYPE ChangeStream
OPTIONS (...)
----
--
+
Using TYPE::
--
[source,sql]
----
CREATE MAPPING people (
firstName VARCHAR(100),
lastName VARCHAR(100),
age INT
)
TYPE Mongo
OBJECT TYPE ChangeStream
OPTIONS (...)
----
--
====

== Field Mappings

> Object type `Collection` resolve columns to be the same as Mongo collection properties' names and types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
This is a duplicate of the sentence below.

> Object type `Collection` resolves columns to the names and types properties of a Mongo collection.

Author: ```suggestion
Object type `Collection` resolves columns to the names and types of the properties of a Mongo collection.
```

> For `ChangeStream` it is more complicated. The ChangeStream objects contains the MongoDB collection properties, prefixed with `fullDocument.`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `ChangeStream` it is more complicated. The `ChangeStream` object contains the MongoDB collection properties, prefixed with `fullDocument.`.
```

There are also some predefined, top-level columns without the `fullDocument.` prefix:

> - `operationType STRING`: Operation that triggered this change event, e.g. `insert`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `operationType STRING`: Operation that triggered this change event, e.g. `insert`.
```

- `resumeToken STRING`: Resume token associated with the given change stream event.
- `wallTime DATE_TIME`: Wall time of the event. The date and time of the database operation on the server.

> - `ts TIMESTAMP`: Timestamp of the event. This is either equal to wall time of the event, if provided, or to current time on the Hazelcast member. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ts TIMESTAMP`: Timestamp of the event. This is either equal to the wall time of the event, if provided, or to the current time on the Hazelcast member. 
```

== Field Mappings

Object type `Collection` resolve columns to be the same as Mongo collection properties' names and types.

> 

Reviewer 2: Would it be correct to say this?

```suggestion
Object type `Collection` resolves columns to the names and types properties of a Mongo collection.
```

For `ChangeStream` it's more complicated: the ChangeStream objects have Mongo collection's properties prefixed with `fullDocument.`,
There are also some predefined, top-level columns without the `fullDocument.` prefix:

- `operationType STRING`: Operation that triggered this change event, e.g. `insert`
- `resumeToken STRING`: Resume token associated with the given change stream event.

> - `wallTime DATE_TIME` - wall time of the event, which means server's date and time of the database operation.

Reviewer 2: Does this work?
```suggestion
- `wallTime DATE_TIME`: Wall time of the event. The date and time of the database operation on the server.
```

> - `ts TIMESTAMP` - Timestamp of when the even occurred, either equal to wall time of the even (see above) or to current

Reviewer 2: Is this accurate?

```suggestion
- `ts TIMESTAMP`: Timestamp of the event. This is either equal to wall time of the event, if provided, or to current time on the Hazelcast member. 
```

>   time on the Hazelcast node, if no event's wall time was provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - `clusterTime TIMESTAMP` - cluster time on which this even occurred, which means timestamp associated with Mongo oplog entry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `clusterTime TIMESTAMP`: Cluster time of the event. The timestamp associated with Mongo oplog entry.
```

> Recommended Mongo documentation page: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/change-events/create/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For further information, see the link:https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/change-events/create/[Mongo documentation].  
```
